in front of me are arguably the best
13-inch windows laptops on the market
right now this is the qua way mate book
13 this is the mate book X Pro both kind
of refreshed and brand-new for 2019 now
it's easy to kind of dismiss this brand
because some people said oh the comments
you look at these devices and they look
like MacBook clones they clearly look
like they've been inspired by Apple's
design and how always a company that has
a bit of a controversial past they've
been caught for IP theft and patent
infringement they don't have the
cleanest record out there however the
fact remains these devices are very good
and if you're in the market for some of
that's thin and light with great
performance this should be on the short
list so I'm just going to jump to
performance real quick
these are running whiskey Lake CPUs
they're quad core they're fast and for
anyone considering an ultrabook
they'll get the job done but they're
also running NVIDIA GPUs and that's what
makes these things special because most
ultrabooks that are thin and light like
this are usually running integrated
graphics these are running dedicated
NVIDIA GPUs they're very similar
performance despite having very
different names they're not gaming GPUs
but if you do want to play some light
games they will work I'm still in the
fence as to the value of these cards
like on one hand they're not super
powerful so you can't do a lot of
graphically intensive stuff with it
but if you're looking for something
that's thin and light that does have
graphical capabilities these are a
perfect fit now I want to talk about
fans and thermals for a second
these have upgraded fans the 2018 models
for both of these devices had kind of
weak thermal performance they had loud
fans they had inappropriately sized fans
these are better but they're still not
perfect the mate book 13 is not running
to fans instead of one but the mate book
X Pro is still running on fan it's an
improved fan it's better but both of
these devices still run pretty loud on
load and even when they're idling I feel
like the fans come on more often than
I'd like them to maybe that's something
I can fix with software and Chloe does
put out software updates pretty
frequently for the devices but I just
feel like these things should be quieter
than they are in their current state now
the main difference between these two
devices is their displays this is
running a 13-inch 1440p panel the
ex-pro is high res it's 3k by 2k and
it's a larger 14 inch panel but the
display on the mate book X Pro is
significantly brighter I think for most
people they're gonna be really drawn to
this screens brightness and colors the
mate book 13 screen is already great
it's just that the maid book X Pro is
that much better
in fact if you're deciding between the
two I really feel like you should just
figure out what type of screen you want
or need and then make your decision
based on that because that really is the
fundamental difference between the two
the mate book 13 has a standard webcam
up top but the X Pro has the pop-up
webcam if you haven't seen this in the
past they have a key that you can press
and the webcam pops up it's pretty cool
I don't think it's a particularly great
location like when you're using it you
can see your hands as you're typing but
I think for most people who don't use
your webcam frequently this is a great
little addition like a kind of hidden
webcam that doesn't get in your way and
the screen has a very thin bezel because
of it the port selection is relatively
light on both of these devices the mate
book 13 has two USB see neither side
supports the novel 3 and only the left
side can be used for charging so it's a
port light device for sure the X Pro has
an extra USB a and the to use PC ports
support for Lane Thunderbolt 3 their
speakers on both of these laptops are
very good the mate book 13 has been
located on the bottom but despite
they're not great location they sound
really clean the speakers on the X Pro
are definitely better there's two on the
bottom and there's two on the top and
they sound excellent there's seriously
some of the best speakers on the
Ultrabook market I would say that
they're comparable to macbook speakers
which are I would say class-leading
these are on par with that okay
keyboards these keyboards have obviously
been inspired by MacBook keyboards from
the past and that's honestly a good
thing these are easy to get used to it's
got a good layout easy to type on I
think most people will use these
keyboards and find them comfortable to
use right away at the top of the
keyboard is a fingerprint sensor on both
of these devices and that lets you log
into the device with Windows hello and O
on the macbook x pro there is something
called huawei connect I don't have the
ability to use it because I don't have a
hallway phone that supports it but if
you have one you can place that phone on
the NFC sticker and it'll transfer data
between the
and your device which is pretty cool
truthfully I think it's actually really
cool and quite innovative like if this
was an Apple feature like people would
go crazy for it it's just that hallway
phones that support that feature aren't
widespread enough to make this thing
like super cool but I do think it's a
cool idea
Oh trackpad they're running winners
precision drivers you have good tracking
good gesture detection and the button
mechanics on both of them are nice clean
click there does seem to be a little bit
of a quality control issue I think both
of these devices have a little bit of
play on the trackpad which I wish wasn't
there but they exist also other things
that I'm not super fond of the mate book
13 only supports 8 gigs of ram and it
probably wouldn't affect most people
like I think that 8 gigs is sufficient
for a lot of workflows but you can't
upgrade it to 16 the mate book X Pro and
also the fortunate version of this
supports 16 but this only supports 8 the
hardware on these mate books is
excellent there's no denying that but
the pricing is a little bit more than I
thought it would be this comes in at
$1,300 this comes in at $1,900 and
that's both for the dedicated graphics
versions that's on par with any of the
premium Windows laptops on the market
right now and there's nothing wrong with
that like these were clearly premium
devices but last year this one in
particular the mate book X Pro was it
was like 20 percent cheaper than it is
now and I think it's gone to the point
where Huawei knows that they're making
good hardware they know that they have
one of the best laptops on the market so
they've bumped up the price because they
can the X Pro costs more than the razor
blade stealth and that was already a
very expensive device the mate book
lineup has great build quality the X Pro
does have slightly better build quality
it's a unibody design so the panels are
just a little bit tighter but they're
both well built in regards to people
calling these clones of apples MacBooks
I can kind of understand where they're
coming from like they've obviously
inspired this design from Apple's
MacBook lineup and even the color of the
devices like the grey unit they call it
Space Gray they call it call that
anything they could have called it
meteor grey rock gray storm gray but
they went with Space Gray because that's
what Apple did and that's just how Hobby
rolls but these devices are excellent
like they're just such good hard
that you know I'm I didn't make this
video to be like hey everyone should buy
these devices I'm certainly not saying
that but if you're in the market for a
thin and light ultra book that has
performance like this you should
definitely look at them because they're
that good